---
id: 376
title: Two Weeks
date: 2003-12-26T06:20:49+00:00
author: Adrianna Tan
layout: post
guid: http://popagandhi.com/?p=376
permalink: /2003/12/two-weeks/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 552628682
crisp_persona_post_view_count:
  - 80
categories:
  - 'Life &amp; Love'
---
_Some weird poetry from 2003, when I was a wee child._

1.
  
two weeks before
  
and the morning after
  
all that mattered was not what really happened
  
where it brings us now, or what a gamble
  
we&#8217;d just taken.

It was you planting your signature hasty goodbye
  
sweetie on my cheeks in the elevator just before
  
the doors opened to my morning; and I would
  
step out to the tune of one bewitched.

It was you seeking out my lips under those
  
sheets, in the dizzy assurance of one who never
  
gave much thought to all that
  
she said; about as clueless as I was,

But at least I never pretended to know any better, and
  
even came out to the truth that morning brought.

2.
  
two weeks later
  
and a headache after
  
all that matters is not what games we played
  
what games played us, or which part of you
  
I saw through.

It is coarseness lingering over still fresh wounds
  
threatening to persist in the spite of me dumping
  
them in pungent saline thinking it might remove
  
each vestige of my guilt.

It is your image cruising over my nightscape
  
explaining, in the manner I knew best, how
  
once you were done with me these would be
  
all you&#8217;d leave me with.

I ought to have listened, somewhere in the interim
  
of that morning and this night, but tried too hard
  
at mending the chasm between my yes and your no.

3.
  
two weeks later
  
and a heartache after
  
who can say for sure what games we played?
  
all that matters is not the end heralding your
  
beginning, but the beginning receiving my end.

It will be me seeking a closure you were too selfish to grant,
  
calming a present lover&#8217;s fears, being the pawn
  
in this game of which I was co-creator;
  
taking danger by its horns yet scarcely daring

to hazard a breath, for it may conjure your illusion.

4.
  
two weeks later, and a mourning after
  
it will be me claiming your scalp, not that
  
I care much for victory or vague triumph: only
  
in hastening the signature dawn of a second morning.