---
id: 1118
title: All In
date: 2014-05-06T20:20:39+00:00
author: Adrianna Tan
layout: single
guid: http://popagandhi.com/?p=1118
permalink: /2014/05/all-in/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 2664800579
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
I turn 29 in a couple of months. T-W-E-N-T-Y-N-I-NE. This is doubly a shock because in my head I feel _forever young_, partly as a function of always having been the youngest person in every single circle I have run in, from friends to career to everything else really. I started blogging when I was 15 — nearly 15 years ago! — at a time when Tripod.com was a hosting provider, content management systems transmitted your passwords in plain text, and leaving a message on a ShoutBox was a valid way of engaging on the Internet.

That young life and everything that encompassed feels as faraway as the era in which I packed 30 Compact Discs to school in a metallic CD holder, and my music skipped — as I skipped — on the way to school through the deserted carpark of my housing estate at six in the morning, every morning. My peers are entrepreneurs and CEOs (being a high-flying lot), my friends are married and/or engaged, my contemporaries have published books, plural, and I show up in magazines occasionally as the Older Role Model For Younger Women. Wow, that&#8217;s old.

All of that just means it&#8217;s great fun. It&#8217;s more fun when you&#8217;re of age. At least that&#8217;s how it&#8217;s been for me. When it seemed dire — sometime around the final year of university, panicking, wondering: what do I do with my life? — when it seemed as though all that life had in store was some dead end office job and an indeterminate life (growing up gay in 1990s Singapore: hard), it&#8217;s been hard to really envision the sort of life I wanted to carve out for myself. For the most part it was even difficult to articulate what _that life_ would be. At almost-29, having seen a bit of the world, having that much more clarity, I have to say Fuck Yeah, It&#8217;s Great. Anything is better than the black holes and the black spots that so terrify you when the alternatives aren&#8217;t immediately obvious.

A hundred and seven weeks ago I left this city (KL) in a mad haste. I didn&#8217;t know how to ship a puppy three hundred and seventy kilometres back to the city I was born and bred in. I didn&#8217;t know how to step away from that comfortable but middling life I had built for myself over a couple of years. I didn&#8217;t know how it was going to be. I&#8217;d set up a company at the tender age of twenty three, in an industry I knew nothing about. I learned more in those years than in all my years of education put together; I grew to _love_ the hustle. That hustle was addictive, but I didn&#8217;t know measure, and I didn&#8217;t know the upper limits of my ambition and my ability. I got very, very ill. In a way, I had to lose it all in order to be a better person along the way.

I&#8217;ve now carved out a life for myself in the city I grew up in. The city I rebelled against and hated with every inch of my being (it was a much different place, then). It has been surprisingly good for me. Chalk it down to the stability of &#8216;home&#8217; and a rock-solid support network I&#8217;m lucky to have back here; to the incredible opportunities I get from being here; there&#8217;s hardly a week which passes without the ability to reinvent myself in any of three or more amazing ways.

A decade ago I was a wimpy teenager with nothing but a half-baked sense of the general direction I wanted to move towards. The hardest part, it felt at the time, was to learn how to leapfrog the various handicaps I felt I had then: the curse of being female, gay, and opinionated. These days all of those things feel like strengths.

In the decade since, I&#8217;ve relentlessly pursued every single one of my goals in life and in love. It hasn&#8217;t been an easy journey, but at least I can say this: I failed, I stumbled, I felt I could not recover from some of those setbacks; I bounced back, even if it took a very long time in some of them. I&#8217;ve managed to create a life for myself across continents which appears charmed and easy and privileged and opportunistic to some, but which I&#8217;ve worked really hard for.

A few months ago while having a bit of an existential crisis, I&#8217;d written in my (paper) journal: I&#8217;m ambitious and a perfectionist in my career, so why not in happiness? That&#8217;s what drives me at the end of it all: the seemingly elusive happiness, defined by you and you alone. It was clear I could never be happy pushing paper behind a desk, so I ran from it. It was evident I could pretend to be happy in the sort of middling arrangement in which I had all of the trappings of comfort but none of the excitement of an inspirational love, so I had to learn to be happy on my own before I could hazard such risks again. I&#8217;ve spent the past hundred and seven weeks _figuring stuff out_, which is perhaps as self-indulgent as it comes, but I learned I just wasn&#8217;t ready. You grow up a ton when you have bills and thousands of dollars in taxes to pay for your youthful mistakes.

This is what I do differently now:

  1. **Write clear, concise emails.** I wish I knew it earlier, but learning to ask for things clearly and briefly is a life skill.
  2. **Talk about money without feeling weird.** I don&#8217;t know about you, but I used to find it difficult to talk about money. Expected compensation, ballpark estimates, money you will render for a good or a service — maybe girls aren&#8217;t really brought up to be OK asking for what you think you&#8217;re worth? I don&#8217;t know. But ever since learning to do this, things get done faster, and more importantly expectations are met — or not — in a more efficient manner.
  3. **Say no.** I believe it&#8217;s a trait of many a person&#8217;s younger life that saying no is just the most difficult thing you can do, next to talking about money, often together. A month ago I was at the cusp of a huge career development: I had three major opportunities, each better than the other. At the end of it I realized (a) you already know what the best option is, if you trust your gut (b) but that takes time and experience to learn to trust. I said no to the first two opportunities, and I&#8217;m happier for it.
  4. **Having to prove yourself is bullshit.** There&#8217;s a difference between establishing credibility and having to again and again prove your worth — and that&#8217;s true in business and in love. With age I&#8217;ve also become more comfortable with the big idea of Who I Am and What I Stand for, and it&#8217;s (related to the previous point) been easier to move towards what you really want as a result. For example, social media contests for popularity in order to &#8220;Win Something&#8221; — that&#8217;s all bullshit. You have better ways to expend your time and energy.
  5. **Pay It Forward.** Your mileage may vary, but I truly believe that paying it forward is one of the best things you can do. I run an NGO, organize community events for causes I Give A Shit About, and mentor some younger gay and trans kids because&#8230; why wouldn&#8217;t you? It&#8217;s so much more fulfilling that way. You get back in spades what you give, and not solely in the monetary sense.
  6. **Give A Shit, Or Don&#8217;t.** This part was hard to figure out. I&#8217;ve had some arguments and lost some friends over this. My version of it: in general, I try to be a nice person, and perhaps succeed at it. But I feel I&#8217;ve come to that point in my life where I&#8217;m aware of the limitations — of myself, more than anything else. And when I don&#8217;t feel like it, or when someone or something has a negative impact on my happiness or that of a loved one&#8217;s, not giving a shit is the only way I know how to deal with it these days. Anything else — the awkward pretense? the song and dance of adolescent and young adult social niceties? Fuck that. My only rule is if a person or organization or thing has a nett positive effect on the things I care most about — that&#8217;s great. Life&#8217;s way too short for people who tire you out and worse still, people who subtract from the world.
  7. **Sleep More.** I&#8217;m late to the party, but I&#8217;m a new convert to the Sleep Is Really Important school of thought. It&#8217;s related to aging, but damn, it&#8217;s magic. Not sleeping, however, is toxic. No matter for what ends.
  8. **Do What You Love.** I&#8217;m not a fan of this pithy statement. It&#8217;s almost too slick. But there&#8217;s some truth to it. What I prefer, though, is a combination of that with &#8220;Change What You Don&#8217;t&#8221;. I love a lot of things — aviation, gin, India, travel, and so much more — but I&#8217;m not about to run out and eke out a living out of every single one of them. What helps me keep balance (and sanity) is the other part. What bothers me so much that I cannot sit idly by? For now, it&#8217;s girls&#8217; education in India. Xenophobia in Singapore. In a couple of years it might be religious fundamentalism in Singapore. Or something else which will surprise me.
  9. **Learn Something New.** It wasn&#8217;t always so, but of late I&#8217;ve had a strict personal rule. That I should learn something I don&#8217;t know anything about, whenever it feels like I&#8217;m stagnating. Last year, it was diving. And swimming. This month, it&#8217;s classical guitar and gardening.
 10. **Know Thyself. Then Adjust Accordingly.** As I previously mentioned, I set up my own company at age twenty three knowing fuck-all about tech and business. I now know how important it is to have strict accounting and paper-filing standards. When I was ill in KL it felt like the sort of health-related traffic red light which made me stop to take stock of my life, health and my abilities. I have always known I&#8217;m not temperamentally suited to conventional employment, yet I did not feel ready enough — financially or mentally, since I was for a long time at that point in my life where I could not even remember passwords or how to populate spreadsheets, so I could not.

Lastly, this: **Jump On The Train When It Pulls Into The Station.** In my industry there are various ways to convey this. One of it is, when the rocketship arrives, get on and don&#8217;t ask which seat you&#8217;re on. The other one is, do you want to spend the rest of your life selling sugared water? In that respect, I&#8217;ve just had my metaphorical train pull up into the station. So I&#8217;m going all in.</li>

In a month and a bit, I get to pick up where I left off and call this past 107 weeks officially over. It wasn&#8217;t possible without a lot of hustling, but here I finally am. I&#8217;m starting a new company which combines the two things I Give A Shit most about, tech and female empowerment in Asia. I have a great team, enlightened investors, and nothing to prove this time but to see how far technology can improve lives (tech solutionism? perhaps.) in that part of the world I care the most about. We get started — first in Jakarta, then in Yangon, which also brings me back to how everything comes full circles and all the dots connect if you let it, that I spent the better part of my youth &#8216;aimlessly&#8217; wandering around these parts finding things to do. When things happen, you grab them by the bloody balls.

None of this would have been possible if it wasn&#8217;t for the incredible people in my life, especially my family, my peers and the amazing woman I now call my girlfriend. They keep me grounded, in all of the best ways. My dad, because he&#8217;s never once flinched at being the rock of my life; my circle of best friends, because they never let me get too arrogant or too hurt, all at once; my girlfriend, because she keeps me grounded in some very real ways, sometimes literally — we are planting microgreens and crops this week. Mostly, because I have a home to come back to, in the literal and the figurative sense.

I&#8217;m excited to embark on the next phase of my life with the sum of every single goddamn part, and so much more.
